
                             LEDA-R 3.2  

The new LEDA version available on our ftp server is "LEDA-R 3.2". The "R" 
stands for research and has been added to make it distinguishable from 
the commercial version (LEDA 3.2) distributed by LEDA Software GmbH. 
The new release is mainly a bug-fix release, however it also contains some 
new algorithms for graphs and computational geometry. The implementation of 
parameterized data types (<LEDA/param_types.h>) has been re-written to make 
it more readable and stable. It now should work with all c++ compilers 
supporting template functions and on all architectures, in particular, 
64 bit machines (details can be found in <LEDA/param_types.h>.

LEDA-R 3.2 can be used freely for academic research and teaching.
Licenses for the commercial version "LEDA 3.2" are distributed by the 
LEDA Software GmbH.


DIFFERENCES BETWEEN LEDA 3.2 AND LEDA-R 3.2

The only difference between LEDA-R and LEDA is that the research version 
may contain additional data types, algorithms or other features which are 
  - experimental (not tested enough or not working on all platforms)
  - of interest only for particular research
  - temporary (may be removed or changed in future versions)
The commercial version  will never contain data types, algorithms or 
features of this kind. It is supposed to stay backward consistent in 
the sense that old programs should work with new versions of LEDA. 


WHO NEEDS A LICENSE?

- Every organization that uses LEDA and is not an academic research
  institute or school.

- Everyone who sells programs that are developped using LEDA.

- Everyone who delivers programs that are developped using LEDA to
  non-academic organisations.

Holders of a licence for the commerical version are free to also 
use the research version for commercial use.




Please write to leda@mpi-sb.mpg.de if you want to
* send bug reports or suggestions
* get information on the commerical license 
* be on our mailing list


Subscribe to the LEDA newsgroup comp.lang.c++.leda 




K. Mehlhorn, S. Naeher, C. Uhrig
